MSA is a more agile framework that fits well with the
cloud-based world and lends itself well to web application
development and web service development.
MSA is very flexible because it supports any language that can communicate
via a RESTful endpoint since it leverages REST over HTTP,
and is a far simpler means for delivering web services than let's say SOAP,
which has been long criticized for complexity.
MSA offers agility and systems that are easier to write,
test, deploy, and share.
MSA provides systems that can better scale to load and demand.
MSA provides systems that are resilient because failures are
isolated and don't cascade through the infrastructure.
Typically, once an application reaches a certain level of scale,
it transitions to MSA.
We will see this with some of the real world use cases I'll share with you.
There are several characteristics of the microservices architecture.
Now the phrase Micro in microservices isn't related to the lines of code,
but is based on the scope of the interface.
Each microservice is single purpose.
Each microservice has a simple well defined interface.
Each microservice is modular and independent,
and has isolated persistence, which means the microservice doesn't share data,
and it serves as the single system of record for data.
MSA also breaks up the big monolithic database so each
service has its own private database. The shared database is no more.